President Trump on Saturday questioned whether his former national security adviser Michael Flynn was the victim of a "rigged system" after he was indicted in the special council's Russia probe.

In a series of tweets on Saturday, Trump suggested Flynn had his life "destroyed" for lying to the FBI, while former Democratic rival Hillary Clinton Hillary Diane Rodham ClintonAppeals court rules against releasing draft Whitewater indictments against Clinton Dems resurface Flynn's 'lock her up' comments after Mueller charges Kaine: Flynn will get 'fair legal process' he tried to deny Clinton MORE has got off free after deleting emails.

"So General Flynn lies to the FBI and his life is destroyed, while Crooked Hillary Clinton, on that now famous FBI holiday “interrogation” with no swearing in and no recording, lies many times...and nothing happens to her? Rigged system, or just a double standard?" Trump wrote on Twitter.

In another tweet, Trump reignited his attacks on his former Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton, asking what the Justice Department would do to punish Clinton for deleting emails that he suggested may have been related to the FBI's investigation into her use of a private server during her tenure as secretary of state.

"Many people in our Country are asking what the “Justice” Department is going to do about the fact that totally Crooked Hillary, AFTER receiving a subpoena from the United States Congress, deleted and “acid washed” 33,000 Emails? No justice!" he tweeted.

The president's tweets came a day after Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about his communications with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in the month before Trump took office.

Shortly after entering his guilty plea on Friday, Flynn acknowledged in a statement that he is cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow.

Trump and his allies, including Flynn, have long suggested that Clinton should have been punished in the wake of the FBI's investigation into her use of a private email server, leading chants of "lock her up" on the campaign trail.

The FBI investigation of Clinton concluded last year, with the agency's then-Director James Comey recommending against charges for the former secretary of state. He said at the time that Clinton had acted irresponsibly in her use of a private email server, but that her actions did not warrant charges.

In his first substantial remarks on Flynn's guilty plea, Trump tweeted on Saturday that he had fired Flynn earlier this year, because he was aware that the former national security adviser had lied to Vice President Pence and the FBI about his contacts with Kislyak.

That tweet, however, was an apparent shift for Trump's initial explanation of Flynn's ouster in February, when he said that it was because he had misled Pence. He made no mention of Flynn's false statements to the FBI at the time.