For the sin of being born, Obamacare mandates that every American purchase health insurance. If we do not purchase this totally unnecessary, godawful product (more on this below), we are required by law to pay a hefty tax to the federal government.

Somehow, and I do not really care how, this tax actually costs the government money, some $340 billion — with a “B” — every ten years.

Only Bill Ayers’ pal and his merry band of congressional nincompoops could crawl so far up their own backsides that they were able to find a tax that increases the deficit.

But thank heavens they did. Had they not, the Senate would not have repealed the mandate Friday night.

After the humiliation of failing to keep their defining promise to repeal Obamacare, the Senate turned to tax reform, which also looked sketchy due to deficit projections. But then the clouds parted and the stars aligned with the discovery that repealing the Obamacare mandate would save the government this $340 billion.

Talk about a win-win. Here was a way to kill the most hated (and crucial) part of Obamacare and pass tax cuts. And that is exactly what happened — the American people won a sweet two-fer:  lower taxes and freedom from a fascist mandate.

Normally I am cautious about celebrating such a thing until it is signed into law. My understanding, though, is that the worst that can happen from here is the House passes the Senate bill — which means the Obamacare mandate is dead, which means this is the most important civil rights victory in years.

If I purchase a car, I am voluntarily taking on certain civic responsibilities that require the purchase of insurance. I have no problem with that. The Obamacare mandate is something altogether different.

For no other reason other than the fact I am born, the mandate is the federal government forcing me to buy something. This is nothing less than a legalized violation of my civil rights.

Forget the fact that Obamacare so over-regulates the insurance industry that we are now required to purchase a ridiculously expensive, one-size-fits-all Cadillac plan with a deductible so sky-high most of us will never use it. That is the least of this outrage, and something the Senate still needs to fix.

What I am talking about is the principle of the state forcing you to purchase something for your own good and for the good of others.

Sorry to be crude, but f**k that.

Setting a precedent that allows the government to force me to buy something for my own good is as un-American as it gets. What if studies show that the key to a long life is owning a Bible and gun? Is it okay with you Obamacare fans if Trump and Co. mandates the purchase of those?

Because the numbers come from the mainstream media and our government, I do not believe that the mandate repeal will result in 13 million more uninsured Americans. After all, how many of those will be thrilled to no longer be forced to purchase insurance, how many will gladly volunteer to be uninsured?

But if you want to know the truth, even if you could convince me that the mandate repeal would result in 13 million losing the insurance they want, I still don’t give a damn — for four reasons.

1) No one incapable of working will lose their insurance. There is plenty of welfare out there.

2) Until the government told me I had to buy health insurance, I have managed to be insured my whole life. Even during those years when I was as poor as a working man can be. I worked two jobs. My wife worked two jobs. I suggest you do the same.

3) Everyone has access to health care. You may have to pay for it yourself. You may have to go into debt. But health care is available to everyone.

4) Thirteen million uninsured is a small price to pay to restore my freedom, my civil rights, my God-given right to handle (or not handle) my personal health care in whatever way I so choose.

The federal government’s only job is to protect my rights, not to strip them in a fit of fascist do-gooderism.

So to this Obamacare repeal, I say without a hint of irony, Free at last, free at last, thank God almighty we are free at last.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.